---
title: 'Ph.D. Produced'
permalink: /post/2012-08-14-blog-post-1.md/
---

1. Some Inferences for Life Time Models When the Observations are Complete and Censored - 1994 by Shastri, Vastoshpati
- Mr. Shastri was recipient of Junior Research Fellowship and soon after the completion of his Ph.D., he joined as Lecturer at Government Post graduate College, Ratlam.
3. Bayesian Analysis for Some Failure Time Distributions - 1994 by Agrawal, Rekha
- Ms. Rekha Agrawal was also recipient of prestigious National JRF award and soon after the completion of her Ph.D., she joined as Principal at an Intermediate College in M.P.
3. Sample Based Approaches for the Analysis of Certain Reliability Models - 1998 by Vasishta, Naveen
- Mr. Naveen Vasishta joined as Ph.D. scholar on deputation from Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, New Delhi, and he returned back to his position after completion of his Ph.D. degree. At present he is Scientist at the Department of Science & Technology, New Delhi.
4. Posterior Analysis for Some Complex Failure Models - 2002 by Meena Peshwani
  - Ms. Peshwani was mainly concerned with the complex failure models mostly untouched in Bayesian literature. In the initial phase she appeared to face a number of computational challenges in her work but finally came up with nice solutions. Her work was very much appreciated by the academic audience during her presentation. She is at present working as Lecturer in a college at Mumbai.
5. Bayesian Analysis via Sample Based Approaches: A Study for Certain Less Explored Failure Models – 2002 by Iftikhar Ahmed Javed
- Mr. Javed was perhaps the first student who took minimum time (almost three years) in completing his Ph. D. thesis. At present he is managing and looking after his own school.
6. MCMC Based Solutions of Some Problems Related to Bathtub Shaped Hazard Rate Function-2008 by Ashutosh Gupta
- Mr. Ashutosh Gupta was an excellent student who was also recipient of CSIR Junior Research Fellowship that was latter converted to Senior Research Fellowship. He finished his work in less than three years and just after his submission, he joined as Asst. Manager in GlaxoSmithKline at Bangalore.
7. Model Comparison in Certain Lifetime Contexts: A Bayes Study-2008 by Bhaswati Mukherjee
- Ms. Bhaswati Mukherjee was Lecturer prior to her registration under my supervision. She was very much interested in completing her work with me on a topic using Bayesian paradigm. After completion of her work in almost three years, she joined as a research scientist in Bristol Myers Squibb India Pvt. Ltd. Currently she is working in a Pharmacy company at Bangalore.
8. Bayesian Solutions of Some Medical Data Problems-2009 by Puja Makkar
- Ms. Puja Makkar took applied problems for her Ph.D. and she mainly considered analysis of a few realistic data arising from medical field. Most of her problems were quite useful both from the view points of medical practitioners and applied statisticians. The most important aspect of her work was simple and routine implementation of techniques for solving complex medical problems. She is currently having a research related job in USA.
9. A Bayesian Analysis of Some Etiological Factors Related to Gallbladder Diseases- 2014 by Richa Srivastava
- Ms. Richa Srivastava considered the Bayesian study of some etiological factors responsible for developing gallbladder diseases, especially the cholelithiasis and carcinoma. She analyzed a variety of data sets using a few significant tools of Bayesian paradigm. She also considered an important problem on subjective elicitation of prior based on the opinion taken from surgeons. Currently she is working as Asst. Professor at Lucknow.
10. Posterior Based Inferences for Some Medical Data Problems in the Presence of Genetic Susceptibility and Environmental Exposure-2014 by Akanksha Gupta
- Akanksha’s thesis is an important contribution on the effect of genetic susceptibility and environmental exposure in ovarian cancer among women. Her work was supported by real data illustration on ovarian cancer among Israeli women. Currently she is working as Asst. Professor at Lucknow.
11. Bayesian Analysis of Some Non-regular Families in Accelerated Testing-2016 by Rijji Sen
- This thesis is an attempt to outline and analyze a few important non-regular families useful in accelerated life testing. Some of the problems considered in the thesis also incorporate covariates along with the life times to account for the heterogeneity in the population. Ms. Sen joined as an Assistant Professor at Calcutta soon after the submission of her thesis.
12. Bayesian Analysis of a Few Low-dimensional Competing Risk models in Lifetime Data Analysis-2016 by Rakesh Ranjan
- In this thesis Rakesh has attempted to analyze some low dimensional competing risk models in a Bayesian framework. The classical estimation especially those based on maximum likelihood principle is also taken up routinely although this may not be his primary concern. After submission of his thesis, he joined as an Assistant Professor at Delhi.
13. Bayesian Analysis for Some Time Series Data Models -2017 by Praveen Kumar Tripathi
- The thesis focuses on applied aspects of Bayesian methodologies especially related to time series data in Indian context. The time series data in Indian context have lots of their own peculiarities in the sense that they are not only affected by the local characteristics but also affected by global impacts. The thesis attempts to proceed with the same very objective through easy to implement Bayes procedures. Mr. Tripathi is expected to join soon as an Assistant Professor at Dehradun.
14. Bayes Analysis for Some Accelerated Life Test Situations – 2018 by Reema Sharma
- The thesis considers certain important accelerated life test situations where exact failure times are not observable rather one only comes to know the status of surviving or failed items in the form of binary outcomes. The situation can be further
challenging when some of the items under test are missing at the time of taking observations. The thesis attempts to consider some such data sets and successfully analyzes the resulting models using the tools of Bayesian paradigm.
15. Some Observations on Fault Analysis in Service-Oriented Architecture- 2019 by Guru Prasad Bhandari
- The thesis primarily aims with fault analysis in service oriented architecture. The candidate has considered a number of approaches including colored Petri nets, stochastic Petri nets and tools of machine learning both for the analysis and
prediction in service oriented architecture based systems. The overall objective includes providing ability to the systems to automatically learn and improve from the experiences. Mr. Bhandari moved to Norway on post-doctoral fellowship soon after completion of his PhD degree.
16. Bayesian Analysis of Some Problems in Human Fertility Modelling and Forecast-2019 by Rahul Kumar Mishra
- This thesis primarily focusses on demographic treatment of fertility data where one employs birth probabilities to model the event of occurrence of births. This work is perhaps the first of its kind where entire development is based on Bayesian paradigm. Some new complex models are considered that has the capability of providing improved fitting for bi-modality behaviour in the fertility data that has been observed in the recent years due to delay in the obvious fertility bearing. The proposed models have the capability of giving close forecast of the fertility trend.

   

