---
title: 'My Research Interests'
permalink: /posts/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

In the early days of my research, I was mainly concerned with classical estimation and testing in statistical reliability. I also used the concept of preliminary testing, shrinkage techniques, adaptive estimation, etc. for improving the existing procedures.
My interest soon shifted to Bayesian paradigm and I started working in the area of Bayesian estimation mainly in life testing and reliability and survival analysis. Besides, I developed some important tools of Bayesian computation especially for low-dimensional non-regular families and censored data problems. I am still continuing with the Bayesian paradigm and now a-days engaged in developing Bayesian computational techniques for low dimensional reliability models especially in the situations where data available are scarce, compounded with (complex) censoring mechanism. Some interesting problems on model comparison and model fitting were also considered with reference to the models used in statistical reliability and survival analysis.
Besides, I also considered some interesting problems in Applied Bayesian Analysis, especially in the areas such as survival analysis, epidemiology, demography, econometrics and time series data analysis, etc. I considered some important problems on prior elicitation and hierarchical Bayes analysis. Some illustrations based on real data involving genes and environmental studies on ovarian cancer and study on etiology of gallbladder carcinoma are worth mentioning.
