---
title: "Conference/Seminar Proceedings"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2014-03-01-talk-3
#date: 2014-03-01
---

1981: Annual Conference: Indian Science Congress Association, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (participated). 
1982: Recent Developments in Techniques of Population Analysis and Statistical Inference, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi. Presented papers entitled:  (i). Selection based on likelihood ratio and adaptive estimation in life testing. (ii). Prediction limits for Weibull failure based on preliminary test estimator. 

1983: XIII International Conference: “Stochastic Process and their Applications” & V Annual Conference: “Indian Society for Theory of Probability and its Applications”, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi. Presented paper entitled: Reliability estimation in stress-strength model: A Bayes approach 
1983: Annual Conference: Indian Science Congress Association, Sri Venkatesawar University, Tirupati. Presented paper entitled: Selection based on modified likelihood ratio and adaptive estimation from a censored sample. 
1985: UGC Seminar on Statistical Methodology and its Applications, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi. Presented paper entitled: Bayesian shrinkage estimation of system reliability in Weibull distribution. 
1986: Annual Conference: Indian Science Congress Association, Delhi University, Delhi. Presented paper entitled: Bayesian inference in mixtures of two exponentials 
1989: National Seminar on Recent Statistical Advances in Problem Oriented Research, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi. Presented paper entitled: Bayes estimators of exponential parameters in the presence of a guess value 
1992: Local Seminars - Autumn 1992, Imperial College of Science, Technology & Medicine, London. Delivered talk on: Bayesian inference in life-testing and reliability models 
1992: The Royal Statistical Society Conference, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom (participated). 
1992: International Conference: Practical Bayesian Statistics, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, United Kingdom (participated). 
1993: SRE Symposium: Reliability a Competitive Edge, Elektrum Congress, Arnhem, the Netherlands. Presented paper entitled: Simulation based Bayesian approaches to the analysis of a lognormal regression model. 
1994: National Workshop on Biostatistics and Biometry, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (Organising secretary and member: Transport and Accommodation Committees).
1995: National Conference on Recent Developments in Sampling Techniques and Related Inferences, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (Secretary, Organising Committee and member: Program Committee). Presented paper entitled: Two important sample based approaches for Bayesian computation.
1995: National Conference on Statistical Inference in Life Testing and Reliability Using Apriori Information, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (Organising secretary and member: Program, Catering and Souvenir Committees). Presented paper entitled: Bayesian analysis of reliability models via Gibbs sampler. 
1996: National Seminar on Bayesian Statistics and its Applications*, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (April 6 to 8, 1996): Convener of the event   Delivered a popular speech on “About the Seminar” in the Inaugural Function 
Presented some important viewpoints in a special session “Future of Bayesian Statistics in India” 
*A national seminar on Bayesian statistics was organized for the first time in India on such a large scale. The seminar was a grand success. 
1996: Second National Workshop on Biostatistics and Biometry, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (Organising secretary and member: Printing invitation & Session, Lodging & Boarding and Transport Committees).
1997: XVII Annual Conference of ISPS and National Seminar on New Dimensions in Theoretical and Applied Statistics, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (Secretary). 
1997: International Conference on Statistical Inference, Combinatorics and Related Areas (Organized by FORUM for Interdisciplinary Mathematics and University of South Alabama, USA), Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (Reception Committee: Member; Technical Program Committee: Member; Catering Committee: Member; Souvenir Committee: Chair)  Chaired a Session: Recent Advances in Reliability and Life Testing II (S VIII b)
1997: International Conference on Recent Advances in Statistics and Probability (Organized by Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta and the Bernoulli Society for Mathematical Statistics and Probability, USA), Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta. Chaired a Session: Practical Aspects of Bayesian Methods (I 27)
1998: Satellite Bayesian Conference, Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta. Delivered a Technical Talk: Bayesian Analysis Using Metropolis Algorithm with Illustration in Reliability Models 
1999: National Seminar on Bayesian Analysis: Theory and Applications, Amravati University, India. Member, National Advisory Committee; Discussant in “Panel Discussion on Bayesian Syllabus for Indian Universities”; Delivered Invited Talk on:  On the Use of MCMC Procedures in Bayesian Reliability; Chaired a Session on Bayesian Analysis
1999: Sixth International Conference on Statistical Inference, Combinatorics and Related Areas (Organized by FORUM for Interdisciplinary Mathematics and University of South Alabama, USA), University of South Alabama, USA. Delivered a Technical Talk on: Full posterior analysis of reliability models using sample based approaches 
2000: International Conference on Statistics, Combinatorics and Related Areas and The Seventh International Conference of the Forum for Interdisciplinary Mathematics (December 19-21, 2000), Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai. Delivered a Technical Talk on: Bayes Analysis of Birnbaum-Saunders Distribution Using Gibbs Sampler 
2000: An International Conference on Recent Developments in Statistics and Probability and Their Applications (IISA-JSM), (December 30, 2000- January 2, 2001), India International Centre, New Delhi. Organized a Session with Prof. Dipak Dey, University of Connecticut, USA, on Bayes and Empirical Bayes Methods and Estimating Equations; Delivered an Invited Talk on: A Review of Recent Techniques in Bayesian Computation and Their Application to the Analysis of Certain Reliability Models 
2001: The XX Annual Conference of Indian Society for Probability and Statistics (ISPS) and National Seminar on Industries Oriented Statistical Research and Annual Conference of Bayesian Society of India (February 19-21, 2001), School of Studies in Statistics, Pt. Ravishankar Shukla University, Raipur. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Gibbs, Metropolis or SIR: An Application to Some Simple Examples from Accelerated Testing. 
2001: International Conference on Statistical Inference and Reliability to Honour Professor Jayant V. Deshpande; The XXI Annual Conference of ISPS; Annual Conference of Indian Chapter of ISBA and Annual Bayesian Meeting (Dec. 21-24, 2001), Panjab Univ., Chandigarh. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Bayesian p-values and few Details on Related Computational Issues; Chaired a Session on Bayesian Analysis.  Speaker (as a representative and Convener of Indian Bayesian Group) in Valedictory Session of the joint Conference 
2002: The XXI Conference of Indian Society for Probability and Statistics; National Seminar on Advances in Statistics & Annual Conference of Indian Bayesians (August 11-14, 2002), University of Pune, Pune. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Model Comparison or Validation: A Brief Review of Some Recent Bayesian Developments. 
2002: National Conference on Recent Developments in Statistical Research and National Seminar on Total Quality Management in Industries (November 17-19, 2002), Pt. Ravishankar Shukla University, Raipur. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Tail Area Probability as a Model Checking Tool: Few Bayesian Versions and the Concerned Details. 
2002: National Seminar on Statistical Computing (November 26-28, 2002), Tilkamanjhi Bhagalpur University, Bhagalpur. Delivered an Invited Talk on: A Review of Sample Based Approaches in Bayesian Computation with Illustrations Based on Accelerated Testing. 
2002: International Conference on Statistics, Combinatorics and Related Areas (December 21-23, 2002), University of Allahabad, Allahabad, India. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Bayesian Model Comparison/Validation when the Priors are Non-Informative. Organized a Session on Bayesian Inference (Jointly with Prof. A.K. Bansal of Delhi University). 
2002: International Conference on Ranking and Selection, Multiple Comparisons, Reliability and Their Applications (December 28-30, 2002), Hotel Savera, Chennai, India. Delivered an Invited Talk on: What should be the Right Choice – Weibull or the Lognormal? A Simulation Based Bayesian Study. 
2003: International Conference on Statistics in Industry and Business (January 2-4, 2003), Hotel Abad Plaza, Cochin, India. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Choosing an Appropriate Model in Reliability: A Simulation Based Bayesian Study; Chaired a Special Invited Session on Bayesian Analysis and Applications. 
2003: International Bayesian Workshop/Conference (January 6-8, 2003), Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, India. Delivered a Technical Talk on: Complexities Arising in Failure Models and the Role of Markov Chain Monte Carlo Simulation Member, International Core Group of Advisers 
2003: Seventh Conference of International Biometric Society (Indian Region) along with the Workshop on Statistical Methods in Bioinformatics (November 23-27, 2003), Department of Zoology, Banaras Hindu University. Delivered an Invited Talk (as Resource person) on: Bayesian Methods in Biostatistics and Related Computational Details Member, National Advisory Committee 
2005: International Workshop/Conference on Bayesian Statistics and its Applications (January 6-8, 2005), Department of Statistics, Banaras Hindu University.  and,
Preparatory/Tutorial Lectures for the Indian Participants of the International Workshop/ Conference (January 4-5, 2005), Department of Statistics, Banaras Hindu University; Convener of the event; Delivered a popular speech on “About the Seminar” at the Inaugural Function; Delivered a Lecture on Bayesian Computation in the Preparatory/Tutorial Bayesian Lectures; Delivered an Invited Talk (in the Workshop/Conference) on: Low Dimensional Reliability Models, Compatibility with the Data and Choice-A Bayesian Study; Chaired a Session on: Foundational Issues in Bayesian Statistics 
2005: First J & K State Science Congress, University of Jammu, Jammu, February 7-9, 2005. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Bayesian Computation with Emphasis on MCMC Approaches 
2005: Bayesian Statistics and Evidence Based Medicine, Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi, March 1-4, 2005; Delivered Two Invited Lectures on: Bayesian Inference and Computation 
2006: National Conference on Recent Trends in Statistical Methodologies, Presidency College, Chennai, March 16-17, 2006. Delivered an Invited Lecture on: Complicated Failure Models and the Role of Sample Based Bayesian Approaches 
2006: SCRA 2006|FIM XIII-Thirteenth International Conference of Forum for Interdisciplinary Mathematics, Tomar Polytechnic Institute, Tomar, Portugal, September 1-4, 2006. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Model Comparison: A Bayesian Viewpoint Using Some of the Recent Toolkits; Organized and Chaired a Session on: Bayesian Methodologies 
2007: National Seminar on Theoretical and Applied Bayesian Methodologies, Udai Pratap (Autonomous) College, Varanasi, March 17-18, 2007. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Model Comparison and Validation: A Bayesian Viewpoint; Member in the Advisory Board and Chaired a Technical Session. 
2007: Symposium and Workshop on Statistical Methods in Computational Biology, Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, Dec. 28-29, 2007. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Bayes Statistics and Computation 
2008: UGC Sponsored National Seminar on Applied Bayesian Statistical Analysis, Department of Statistics, Govt. Arts College (Autonomous), Salem, Tamilnadu, May 23-24, 2008. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Model Compatibility and Model Comparison: A Bayesian Perspective; Chief Guest in Valedictory Session; Chaired Technical Session-I 
2009: XI Annual Conference of Society of Statistics, Computer and Applications, Dept. of Statistics, University of Madras, Chennai, Feb. 24-26, 2009. Delivered an Invited Talk on Data Mining and A Few Important Bayes Procedures 
2009: Bioinformatics: Approaches and Applications in Biosciences, Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Banaras Hindu University, Mar. 5-6, 2009. Delivered an Invited Talk on Bayes Paradigm: A Rational Theory of Beliefs 
2009: Seventeenth Conference of the Forum for Interdisciplinary Mathematics on Interdisciplinary Mathematical and Statistical Techniques, University of West Bohemia, Plzen, Czech Republic, May 23-26, 2009. Delivered an Invited Talk on Certain Modelling Issues in Parametric Statistical Reliability: A Bayes Study Organized and Chaired a Session on: Bayesian Methodologies and Computational Tools; Member of Jury in a special session for undergraduate researchers’ paper competition.
2010: International Conference on Statistics, Probability, Operations Research, Computer Science and Allied Areas in conjunction with VIII International Indian Statistical Association Joint Statistical Meeting & XXIX Annual Convention of Indian Society for Probability and Statistics, Dept. of Statistics, Andhra University, Visakhapatnam, Jan. 4-8, 2010. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Bayesian Modelling of Bathtub Shaped Hazard Rate Using Weibull Extension, Modified Weibull 
and Weibull Families; Organized and Chaired a Session (by Indian Bayesian Society) on: Bayesian Analysis with Applications. 
2010: National Seminar on Current Trends in Mathematics with Special Focus on Operations Research and Computers, Department of Mathematics & Statistics, Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Avadh University, Faizabad, March 28-29, 2010. Delivered an Invited Talk on: On the Choice of an Appropriate Model: A Bayesian Viewpoint 
2010: 19th International Conference of FIM on Interdisciplinary Mathematical & Statistical Techniques, 18-20 December 2010, Patna University; Organized Sessions on: Bayesian Applications and Demographic Models (jointly with Prof. K.K. Singh, BHU); Chaired Session on: Bayesian Applications; Delivered Technical Talk on: A Few important Applications of Bayes Paradigm in Medical Data Problems 
2011: National Conference on Statistical Inference, Sampling Techniques and Related Areas, Department of Statistics & O.R., Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, March 28 - 29, 2011. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Model Validation in Bayesian Paradigm; Chaired a Bayes Session 
2011: Statistics 2011 Canada/IMST-2011-FIM XX, Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Concordia University, Montreal, Canada, July 01-04, 2011. Organized an Invited Session; Chaired a Session on Applications of Bayesian Methods; Delivered an Invited Talk on Bayesian Modelling: Analyses of a Few Important Bio-statistical Problems 
2011: National Conference on Bayesian Statistics and Its Applications, Department of Statistics, Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, Tirunelveli, November 9-10, 2011. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Examining a Few Bathtub Shaped Hazard Rate Families and Their Complete Bayesian Analysis; Chaired a Bayes Session 
2011: National Conference on Bayesian Statistics and its Emerging Applications (BSEA), DST Centre for Interdisciplinary Mathematical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University, Dec. 9-10, 2011. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Bayes Analysis of Bathtub Shaped Hazard Models; Chaired a Session on Bayes Applications; Co-Convener of the event 
2012: National Conference on Science Education: Challenges, Present Status and Future Prospectus, Govt. Degree College, Bemina, Srinagar, J & K, March 5, 2012. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Science Education in Our country: Present Status and Future prospects
2013: ISBA Regional Meeting & International Workshop/Conference on Bayesian Theory and Applications (IWCBTA) (January 6-10, 2013), DST Centre for Interdisciplinary Mathematical Sciences & Department of Statistics, Banaras Hindu University. Convener; Delivered a popular speech on “About the Event and Guest Introduction” at the Inaugural Function; Delivered an Invited Talk on: Bayes Analysis of Competing Risk Models Based on Failures Representing Increasing and Constant Hazard Rate Patterns; Chaired Two Sessions as under: Tutorial Lecture by John Geweke on Practical Sequential Monte Carlo for Very Fast Posterior Simulation , Invited Session on Some Contributions to the Bayesian Theory
2013: Conference on Applied Statistics and Its Applications, March 16-17, 2013, Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar University, Lucknow. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Checking, Comparing and Improving the Model: A Bayes Study for Modelling Bathtub Shaped Hazard Behaviour 
2013: One Day Seminar on Applied Statistics, Bayesian and Interdisciplinary Research unit (BIRU), Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, March 22, 2013. Delivered an Invited Talk on: A Simple Model Based on Competing Risk. 
2013: National Conference on Recent Advances in Statistics and Applications (RASA), Pt. Ravishankar Shukla University, Raipur, Nov. 15-17, 2013. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Analyses of A Few Important Bio-statistical Problems Using Bayes Paradigm 
2014: National Conference on Recent Developments in Statistics and Their Applications to Finance, Actuarial Science and Other Areas, Department of Statistics, Central University of Rajasthan, Feb. 14-15, 2014. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Some Simple Bayes Analyses of A Few Important Medical Data Problems
2014: 8th Statistics Day Conference on Modeling and Forecasting, Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai, Sep. 25, 2014. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Bayesian Modelling, Forecasting and A Few Related Issues 
2015: National Conference on Advances in Theoretical and Applied Statistics, Department of Statistics, Panjab University, Chandigarh, Feb. 12-13, 2015. Delivered an Invited Talk on: A Simple Competing Risk Model Reflecting Aging and Accident; Chaired a Technical Session
2015: National Conference on Recent Trends and Developments in Statistics (NCRTDS), Department of Statistics, MD University, Rohtak, Feb. 21-23, 2015. 
Delivered an Invited talk on: Choosing an Appropriate Model: A Bayesian Viewpoint; Chaired an Invited Session 
2016: International Conference on Statistics & Big Data Bioinformatics in Agricultural Research, International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics, Hyderabad, Nov. 21-23, 2016. Delivered an Invited talk on: Bayesian Modelling: A Few Related Issues 
2017: International Conference on Computational Mathematics & Statistics, Banasthali University, India, Jan. 24-26, 2017. Delivered an Invited talk on: Bayes Analysis of Competing Risk Models Based on CHR, IHR and DHR; Chaired an Invited and a Contributory Session 
2017: National Conference on Advanced Developments in Theoretical and Applied Statistics (ADTAS-2017), Department of Statistics, Institute of Science, Banaras Hindu University, Nov. 13-15, 2017. Chaired an Invited Session 
2018: International Conference on Theory and Applications of Statistics and Information Sciences in Conjunction with XXXVII Annual Convention of Indian Society for Probability and Statistics and in association with the Indian Bayesian Society Conference, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, January 5 – 7, 2018. Delivered a Plenary talk on: Bayesians and Bayesian Developments in India; Also Chaired an Invited Lecture
2018: National Level Seminar on R Programming, Bayesian Inference, Cyber Security & Robotics, Behala College, Kolkata, January 9, 2018. Delivered an Invited Talk on: Bayesian Paradigm to Statistical Inferences 
2019: National Seminar on Optimization, Inference, Sampling Techniques and Related Areas, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, Mar. 9-10, 2019. Delivered an Invited Talk on Early Bayesians and Bayesian Developments in India: An Updated Detail; Also Chaired an Invited Session 
2019: Dr. Paarivendhar Research colloquium, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, Sep. 23-25, 2019. Keynote Speaker; Delivered a talk (on Sep. 25, 2019) on “Statistics- A Subject in the Domain of Uncertainty” 
2019: VII Rajasthan Science Congress-2019, Mohanlal Sukhadia University, Udaipur, Oct. 14-16, 2019. Delivered an Invited Talk on Statistics: A Subject with Limitless Boundary
